In this video, I'll show you how
to connect to CrateDB and work
with data using drivers for a
selection of popular programming
languages.
CrateDB's support for the
PostgreSQL Wire Protocol means that
many of these drivers may
already be familiar to you.
You'll often have a choice of
driver for your preferred
programming language, allowing
you to pick one that best suits
your coding style and chosen
level of abstraction.
I'll show you some code in
Python, Node.js, Java and .NET.
If you're using another
language, don't worry.
A full list of available drivers
for many more languages,
including Go, PHP, and others,
can be found in the online
documentation.
We'll begin with a short summary
of popular driver options for
major programming languages.
For Python, we provide our own
driver, crate-python.
If you prefer to work with
SQL, Alchemy, or Pandas,
there are drivers for each of
those too.
You'll see some example code for
these shortly.
Node.js developers can use the
regular Postgres driver.
There's also the option to use a
CrateDB specific driver that
connects to the cluster using
the HTTP endpoint.
When working in Java you can use
our JDBC driver or a
Postgres compatible one. The .NET
framework is supported through
the use of the Npgsql driver.
For Go Lang use pgx.
And finally, here are some
options for PHP developers.
Here's some example code using
the crate driver for Python.
It connects to the
HTTP endpoint and I'm running
a simple SELECT query and
displaying the result.
This code runs the same query
but uses SQL Alchemy and as
you'd expect, it yields the same
results.
The code here should be familiar
to Node.js developers already
working with Postgres.
Using the standard Node Postgres
package, we're again creating a
connection, running a simple
select query, and logging the
results.
Here we're showing 2 fields from
the result object.
rowcount tells us how many rows
were returned, and rows is an
array of objects, each
containing values.
Java developers will likely
already be familiar with the
JDBC interface.
This code uses Crate's JDBC
driver to run the same select
query that we've seen before and
as you'd expect, we get the same
sort of output.
As we saw from the other
languages.
.NET developers can use the standard
Npgsql package that you may
already be familiar with.
Once again, we see the same sort
of output.
Hopefully you now have an idea
of how easy it is to connect
CrateDB and work with data in
your application, no matter
which language or languages
you're developing with.
To find out more about which
drivers and integrations are
available for each programming
language, consult the online
CrateDB documentation.